=head1 NAME

func-inventory -- Takes inventory of data from func minions, and stores them in git.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

func-inventory [--verbose] [--server-spec glob] [--methods list] [--modules list] [--tree path] [--no-git]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

func-inventory runs against func-minions to gather information, and stores this information on the filesystem, in a tree arranged by hostname, module name, and method name.

After each update, differences are commited to version control (using git), where they can be examined with tools such as "git log" and "gitk".

=head1 --verbose

Provides extra output about what func-inventory is doing.

=head1 --server-spec

A glob, as can be given to "func", that describes what machines the inventory program should run against.  The default is "*".

=head1 --modules list

A comma-seperated list of modules that should be included in the inventory, for instance "hardware,packages".  
The default is "all".  

=head1 --methods list

A comma-seperated list of methods that should be included in the inventory, for each module being queried.  The default
is "info", which saves the data for any module that has an "info" method.

=head1 --tree-path

Selects the location where func-inventory will output data.  The default is /var/lib/func/inventory.  This directory will
contain a tree structure based on the hostnames, modules, and methods included in the inventory.

=head1 --no-git

Disables git integration, meaning changes will not be tracked using version control.   This option is present
for those that do not have the "git-core" package installed, though installing it is highly recommended to get
the full degree of power out of func-inventory.

=head1 VIEWING CHANGES

Since func-inventory integrates with git, all changes to the remote systems (including additions of new systems) can
be tracked using standard git-tools such as "git log" and "gitk", when run on the directory specified for --tree.

Additional built in hooks to notify changes can be written using git's own trigger mechanism, though something
more specific to func will likely be developed in the future -- also eliminating the need to grok git internals.

=head1 ALTERNATIVE OUTPUT FORMATS

func-inventory can be passed a --json or --xmlrpc parameter to override the default output format.  These
output formats are much less readable in the git-produced diffs, but are more easily loaded by other programs
that may want to "mine" the output of a func-inventory tree.   Using --json requires that the python-simplejson
RPM be installed.

=head1 ADDITONAL RESOURCES

See https://hosted.fedoraproject.org/projects/func/ for more information.

See also the manpages for "func", "funcd", "certmaster", and "certmaster-ca".

=head1 AUTHOR

Michael DeHaan <mdehaan@redhat.com>



